So now let's talk about the ways you can track
your cost in the cloud.
The first way is to use the billing dashboard,
which will show you all the costs actually for the month,
the forecast, and the month-to-date.
This is a very high level tool,
but it will be helpful to just get
an overview of what's happening.
And on the same page, you will also get access
to the AWS free tier dashboard,
which will show you the usage for each free tier based on
what you've been doing so far for the month.
So let's have a look at the billing dashboard.
And for this, you can click on the top right,
and then click on billing and cost management,
or use a search bar and type billing.
So this is one of my main accounts,
because I want to show you some cost.
So as you can see, this is what my bill looks like
on AWS for this account.
So we have a cost breakdown by month.
Here, we have some information around
the month-to-date cost,
and then the last month cost and the total forecasted.
So a lot of good information.
And here, you get a cost breakdown per service per month,
which is gonna be very helpful.
So it turns out that in November and then December,
I had some costs regarding, for example,
the Amazon RDS service.
So this is very important for me to see,
and you can group them by service, by accounts, by region,
and so on to start to drill down into them.
So this is very indeed and this is a nice home dashboard.
One other thing I want to show you as part
of this dashboard is the free tier.
So if you click on free tier, as you can see,
you will see the service tier you're using,
the current usage and the forecasted usage,
as well as what is the free tier limits.
So it turns out that I'm maxing out on many free tier
for Lambda, for SQS and so on.
But then for other service such as the Amazon SNS service,
I have a current usage of about 600,000.
And the forecasted is this,
but I got 1 million free requests a month,
so I'm going to be fine for this month though.
This is very handy to look at the free tier,
and to look at your cost per month from the home dashboard.
Okay, so next we want to explore our bill a bit deeper.
So for this, we're going to use cost allocation tags.
They will allow us to track our cost on a detail level,
and group them together.
For example, I have defined a cost allocation tag.
And then you export your report,
and then you would get the cost
by category in an Excel format.
So for this, you can use different tags,
you can use the AWS generated tags, for example.
They will be automatically applied to the resource
that you create, and they will start with the AWS prefix,
for example, aws createdBy.
And you can also define your own user tags
that will be defined by the user
that will start with the prefix user column.
And this will be helpful, for example,
to tag your resources and then have them
grouped by call center, by tag, by owner,
by stack, by application, and so on.
You can use tagging as well to create groups.
So tags are used for organizing resources.
For example, your EC2 instances, your images,
your load balancers, your security groups,
your RDS databases, your VPC resources, route 53,
your IAM users, et cetera, et cetera.
And if we create resources through CloudFormation,
they will all be tagged the same way
if you remember it from the CloudFormation hands-on.
There's free naming for your tag,
you can do whatever you want,
but common tag names are going to be name,
environment, team, cost center and so on.
And these tags can be used for cost reason obviously,
but also to create resource groups,
to create, maintain a view, a collection of resources
that will share the common tags,
and you can edit those using the Tag Editor.
So to show you where that would be,
you would go in the search and you type resource groups,
and you arrive onto the resource groups,
and tag editor console.
And you open one tab here and one tab for tag editor.
And this would allow you to edit
your tags for your resources.
So for example, for the tag editor in here,
I can look at resource types of, for example,
security groups for EC2, and I will search my resources,
I will find all the security groups,
and I can for example,
manage the tag of the selected resources,
and say that, yes, I'm going to add a tag of department,
and then say IT, review and apply the tag changes,
and it will apply the tag to all these resources.
And then I can create resource groups,
and I say, okay, it's going to be tag-based.
I can select the resource type or so do all resource types.
So this is great.
And I will say, for example,
that I want my departments to be IT, add it.
And here I will have to see
that if I preview my resource groups,
I can find the five security groups
that I've tagged from before.
Then we can call it IT Resources,
and then create group.
And we don't need a space, I'm going to have IT, underscore,
or now, IT, dash, Resources.
Here we go.
And I have created my first resource group
based on this tag.
And this is very helpful to see
what belongs to different departments.
And you can use this tags for cost purposes.
So then I can click on the left hand side
to cost allocation tags,
and actually activate the one I want.
And then I will be able to generate a report
for this specific user-defined cost allegation tags.
So now, let's talk about the reports we can generate in AWS.
We can generate a cost,
and user report to dive deeper into your cost and usage.
And they will give you an information,
and it's going to be the most comprehensive set of cost,
and usage data available on AWS.
It will include all the additional metadata about services,
the pricing, and the reservations.
So you can get some information, for example,
around your Amazon EC2 reserved instances usage.
This cost report will give you all the AWS usage
for each service category used by an account,
and it's IAM users in hourly or daily line items,
as well as any tags that you have activated
for cost allocation purposes.
And this report can be integrated,
and analyzed using Athena, Redshift or QuickSight,
which is a dashboarding tool.
So this report looks like this.
It is going to be the most granular report you can get
with the most comprehensive data,
and it will describe everything for every cost,
when it was incurred, why it was incurred,
and the description of the associated cost.
So this is definitely a report you may want to use
to analyze your bill in details,
and really understand where a charge is coming from.
Next, we have Cost Explorer,
which is a more visual tool in which we visualize,
understand and manage your cost and usage over time.
You can create custom reports that will analyze the cost,
and usage data, but it is for a high level, okay?
You can get your total cost and usage data
across all accounts or monthly or hourly,
or at the resource level.
And with this Cost Explorer tool,
you will be able to access your optimal savings plan
to lower the prices on your bill.
And most importantly, you can forecast usage up
to 12 months based on the previous usage,
which is an exam question.
So if you're looking for a tool that will allow you
to forecast your bill for 12 months ahead,
then it's going to be Cost Explorer.
So here is an example, with Cost Explorer,
you can get the monthly cost by AWS service,
and as you can see here, you will get these graphs based
on each different month.
And we'll give you, in this example, for EC2 instances,
which one are costing you money, as well as the types.
You can get hourly and resource level information.
So this is your cost every hour with, again,
the cost defined by EC2 instance,
so you can understand which EC2 instance
is costing you more every single hour.
And we can define savings plan,
which is again an alternative to using reserved instances.
And so you would get recommendations on savings plans
right away directly from Cost Explorer.
Finally, as I said, you can forecast usage on Cost Explorer.
So for example, you can have a look at your previous cost,
and then you can go up to 12 months ahead of time
to forecast your usage,
and see how much it's going to cost you
to use AWS in the future based on the growth
you have been experiencing in the past.
So under cost analysis,
we have two things you need to look at.
The first one is data exports.
So if you click on it,
that allows you to export your cost and usage reports.
So for this, you would just create an exporting dashboard.
You would say it's a standard data export,
then you specify an export name, you say whatever you want
to have included in your export, the time granularity,
the columns you want in that export.
So as you can see, it's a lot of columns,
and a lot of information you can get in the report.
And then if you want the table
to be delivered in specific formats, for example CSV,
or Parquet, if you want to export over the new file
over an existing file or not,
and then an S3 bucket to export to and you'd be good to go.
This would allow you to use your tool of choice
to analyze this data or even use Athena if you wanted to.
But if you wanted to just use the standard AWS tools
to analyze this data,
then you would look into Cost Explorer.
So here you can have a look at all your costs over time.
So here you have it based by month of January, February,
and then and so on, all until August,
and then for the other months had no cost,
so they're not showing here.
And then for each month, you can see the services
that were billed the most.
So for example, on this one,
Elastic Load Balancing was billed a Lot.
You can also have a table that you can download as a CSV
to get that breakdown,
and you can change the parameter of your report in here,
and you have a lot of parameters
to choose from as you can see.
And if you're happy with it, then you can save this
to the report library to have a quick access to it,
and access it on the left hand side.
So that's it for this lecture.
Now, we've seen data exports and Cost Explorer.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.